Improve Upgrade Astro Runtime doc (#712)
astronomer/docs: astro/upgrade-runtime.md

## Overview

> New versions of Astro Runtime are released regularly to support new features from both Astro and Apache Airflow. To take advantage of new functionality, as well as bug and security fixes, we recommend regularly upgrading Astro Runtime as new versions are released. Astronomer proudly offers timely support for the latest versions of the Apache Airflow open source project as part of Astro Runtime.

Author: Fair enough!

> New versions of Astro Runtime are released regularly to support new features from both Astro and Apache Airflow. To take advantage of new functionality, as well as bug and security fixes, we recommend regularly upgrading Astro Runtime as new versions are released. Astronomer proudly offers timely support for the latest versions of the Apache Airflow open source project as part of Astro Runtime.

Author: Good question, not sure - let's discuss today

> Follow this guide to upgrade Astro Runtime locally or for a Deployment on Astro. You can use these steps to upgrade to any major, minor, or patch version.

Author: ```suggestion
Follow this guide to upgrade Astro Runtime locally or for a Deployment on Astro. You can use these steps to upgrade to any major, minor, or patch version of Astro Runtime.
```

> Follow this guide to upgrade the Astro Runtime version of a local Airflow environment and/or an Astro Deployment. You can use these steps to upgrade to any major, minor, or patch version of Astro Runtime.

Author: ```suggestion
Follow this guide to upgrade Astro Runtime locally or for a Deployment on Astro. You can use these steps to upgrade to any major, minor, or patch version.
```

> Follow this guide to upgrade the Astro Runtime version of a local Airflow environment and/or an Astro Deployment. You can use these steps to upgrade to any major, minor, or patch version of Astro Runtime.

Author: Hm I don't wanna say a `local Astro project` - I think we've discussed this! The Astro project is a set of files that just "is" - it's just either running in a local Airflow environment or deployed to Astro.

I do agree the wording wasn't amazing though so I simplified a bit

> Follow this guide to upgrade the Astro Runtime version of a local Airflow environment and/or an Astro Deployment. You can use these steps to upgrade to any major, minor, or patch version of Astro Runtime.

Reviewer: Just removed "local" from my suggestion and now I think it works!

> Follow this guide to upgrade the Astro Runtime version of a local Airflow environment and/or an Astro Deployment. You can use these steps to upgrade to any major, minor, or patch version of Astro Runtime.

Author: I also don't wanna say "an astro project" OR a "deployment" - it's both your project, just one is local and one is on astro. i did improve wording here tho.

As you plan to upgrade, keep in mind that:

> - We strongly recommend testing new versions of Astro Runtime locally before upgrading a Deployment on Astro.

Author: Hm I actually do think we should keep it as a product "guideline" - the instructions below are steps, but I'd actually like to add this additional color just to enforce steering people in the right direction

> - We strongly recommend testing new versions of Astro Runtime locally before upgrading a Deployment on Astro.

Reviewer: If you want to enforce this even more, I think it's probably better to put it directly in the step as opposed to this considerations section. This isn't like the other considerations in the list because we're telling the user to do something as opposed to providing contextual information about product/ support. Could see people glossing over the Overview and jumping straight to steps because they assume it's all contextual information and nothing prescriptive.

- All versions of the Astro CLI support all versions of Astro Runtime. There is no dependency between the two.

> - If a version of Astro Runtime includes changes to the schema of the metadata database, the upgrade may take longer than usual. During this time, tasks will continue to run but new tasks will not be scheduled.

Author: Yea this is a good call

To stay up to date on the latest versions of Astro Runtime, see [Astro Runtime Release Notes](runtime-release-notes.md). For more information on Astro Runtime versioning and support, see [Astro Runtime Versioning and Lifecycle Policy](runtime-version-lifecycle-policy.md). For a full collection of Astro Runtime Docker images, go to the [Astro Runtime repository on Quay.io](https://quay.io/repository/astronomer/astro-runtime?tab=tags).

## Prerequisites

To upgrade to a new version of Astro Runtime, you must have:

- An [Astro project](create-project.md).
- The [Astro CLI](install-cli.md) installed.

A Deployment on Astro is not required. To only upgrade your local Airflow environment to a new version of Astro Runtime, follow only steps 1-2 and skip steps 3-4.

## Step 1: Update Your Dockerfile

1. In your Astro project, open your `Dockerfile`.
2. Change the Docker image in the `FROM` statement of your `Dockerfile` to a new version of Astro Runtime.

    To upgrade from Astro Runtime 4.2.6 to Astro Runtime 5.0.1, for example, change your Dockerfile from:

    ```
    FROM quay.io/astronomer/astro-runtime:4.2.6

>     ```

Author: Fair enough - agreed!

    ```
    FROM quay.io/astronomer/astro-runtime:5.0.1
    ```

    You must always specify the major, minor, and patch version of any given Astro Runtime version.

## Step 2: Test Astro Runtime Locally

> To test your upgrade locally:

Author: ```suggestion
We strongly recommend testing new versions of Astro Runtime locally before upgrading a Deployment on Astro. 

To test your upgrade locally:
```

1. Save the changes to your `Dockerfile`.
2. Run `astrocloud dev restart`. This restarts the Docker containers for the Airflow Webserver, Scheduler, Triggerer, and Postgres metadata database.
3. Access the Airflow UI of your local environment by navigating to `http://localhost:8080` in your browser.
4. Confirm that your local upgrade was successful by scrolling to the bottom of any page. You should see your new Astro Runtime version in the footer as well as the version of Airflow it is based on.

    ![Runtime Version banner - Local](/img/docs/image-tag-airflow-ui-local.png)

## Step 3: Deploy to Astronomer

> Once you've tested your new Astro Runtime version locally, upgrade your Deployment on Astro to that version. To do so, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To push your upgraded project to an Astro Deployment, run:
```

```
astrocloud deploy
```

> This command will prompt you to select the Deployment you want to upgrade. Then, it will build your Astro project with your new version of Astro Runtime and push it to your Deployment on Astro.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about deploying project code to Astro, see [Deploy Code](deploy-code.md).
```
This info was duplicative of what's in Deploy Code, and I also think that the CLI does a good enough job of showing what the user needs to do to finish the deploy.

:::caution

Once you upgrade to a Deployment on Astro to a new version of Astro Runtime, you cannot roll back or downgrade to a lower version. If you attempt to do so, you will see an error in the Astro CLI and your request to deploy will not succeed.

:::

> ## Step 4: Confirm Your Upgrade

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 4: Confirm Your Upgrade on Astro
```

1. In the Cloud UI, go to **Your Workspaces** > **Deployments** and select your Deployment.
2. Click **Open Airflow**.
3. In the Airflow UI, scroll to the bottom of any page. You should see your new Runtime version in the footer:

    ![Runtime Version banner - Astro](/img/docs/image-tag-airflow-ui-astro.png)

    You will also see an **Image tag** for your deploy. This tag is shown only for Deployments on Astro and is not generated for changes in a local environment.

## Upgrade Considerations

This topic contains information about upgrading to specific versions of Astro Runtime. This includes notes on breaking changes, database migrations, and other considerations that might depend on your use case.

### Runtime 5 (Airflow 2.3)

> Astro Runtime 5 is based on Airflow 2.3 includes changes to the schema of the Airflow metadata database. When you first upgrade to any Runtime 5 version, consider the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Astro Runtime 5, based on Airflow 2.3, includes changes to the schema of the Airflow metadata database. When you first upgrade to Runtime 5, consider the following:
```
